[STORY-1877] Introducing the new Limited Collaborator role (#3212)
Scalingo/documentation: src/_posts/platform/user-management/2000-01-01-guides.md

---
title: Recommended Role Usage by Team Size
modified_at: 2025-06-25 00:00:00
tags: user team role collaborator security
index: 5
---

> This guide outlines recommended practices for managing roles, collaborators, and security settings on Scalingo, depending on your team’s size and structure. While Scalingo keeps access control simple, using roles strategically will help you balance collaboration with operational security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide outlines recommended practices for managing roles, collaborators, and security settings on the Scalingo Platform, depending on your team size and structure. While Scalingo keeps access control simple, using roles strategically will help you balance collaboration with operational security.
```

Our access management guidelines follow the principle of [least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege). Collaborators should only have the permissions strictly necessary for their responsibilities.

## Small Teams

Structure example: A CTO or lead developer, and a few developers.

Recommendations:

> * Assign the Owner role to the CTO or technical lead responsible for billing and application lifecycle.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Assign the **Owner** role to the CTO or technical lead responsible for billing and application lifecycle.  
```

* Give the Collaborator role to developers who are trusted with full access to settings and data.  
* If contributors have limited responsibilities, prefer using the Limited Collaborator role to restrict access to sensitive operations.  
* Encourage code review and protected branches in your SCM to limit the impact of elevated permissions.

## Mid-Sized Teams

Structure example: A CTO, a lead developer, senior developers, junior developers.

Recommendations:

> * Keep the Owner role for the CTO or an engineering manager in charge of account and billing governance.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Keep the **Owner** role for the CTO or an engineering manager in charge of account and billing governance.  
```

* Assign the Collaborator role to trusted leads who need access to all environments, data, and team management.  
* Use the Limited Collaborator role for senior developers who handle deployments and logs but don’t need access to sensitive configurations or secrets.  
* Junior developers do not need a Scalingo account. They can contribute to the project exclusively through your GitHub or GitLab workflows.  
* Leverage branch protections and CI validation workflows for better deployment governance.

## Large or Multi-Project Teams

Structure example: Several project teams and multiple environments.

Recommendations:

> * Use a global Service Account (dedicated Scalingo account) as the application Owner, especially for production apps. This avoids coupling billing or critical permissions to a personal account.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use a global Service Account (dedicated Scalingo account) on which you set the **Owner** role, especially for production apps. This avoids coupling billing or critical permissions to a personal account.  
```

> * Apply the same role split as in mid-sized teams: Collaborator for leads, Limited Collaborator for developers.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Apply the same role split as in mid-sized teams: **Collaborator** for leads, **Limited Collaborator** for developers.  
```

* Use a specific and dedicated Service Account to scope API tokens to a given application and ensure better isolation between apps.

## Per-App Scoped API Tokens

> Since API tokens inherit all the permissions of the user account they are generated from, we recommend using a dedicated service account when you need application-scoped API access.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since API tokens inherit all the permissions of the user account they are generated from, we recommend using a dedicated service account when you need application scoped API access.  
```

Add this service account as a Collaborator on the specific application only, and generate API tokens from it.

This ensures that the token has access exclusively to the intended application, and cannot be used across other apps.

## Verify whether your collaborators have 2FA enabled

Although 2FA cannot be enforced globally on Scalingo, you can view each collaborator’s 2FA status from the [Collaborators page](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/collaborators) of your Scalingo dashboard.

## Regular Access Reviews

> Access rights tend to evolve over time, and it’s easy to overlook outdated or excessive permissions. We recommend conducting regular access reviews to ensure that each collaborator still has the appropriate role based on their current responsibilities. This also helps identify inactive accounts or permissions that should be revoked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access rights tend to evolve over time and it’s easy to overlook outdated or excessive permissions. We recommend conducting regular access reviews to ensure that each collaborator still has the appropriate role based on their current responsibilities. This also helps identifying inactive accounts or permissions that should be revoked.
```
